


566 F.3d 1282
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
ABBOTT LABORATORIES, Plaintiff-Appellant,
and
Astellas Pharma, Inc., Plaintiff-Appellant,
v.
SANDOZ, INC., Defendant-Appellee,
and
Sandoz GMBH, Defendant,
and
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Defendants-Appellees,
and
Ranbaxy Laboratories, Ltd. and Ranbaxy, Inc., Defendants,
and
Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. and Par Pharmaceutical, Defendants.
Lupin Limited, Plaintiff/Counterclaim Defendant-Appellee,
and
Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Counterclaim Defendant-Appellee,
v.
Abbott Laboratories, Defendant/Counterclaimant-Appellant,
and
Astellas Pharma, Inc., Defendant/Counterclaimant-Appellant.
Nos. 2007-1400, 2007-1446.
|
May 18, 2009.
Synopsis
Background: Competitor brought action against patent licensee seeking declaratory judgment of non-infringement of patent for crystalline cefdinir. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Robert E. Payne, J., 484 F.Supp.2d 448, construed patent, and entered summary judgment of noninfringement, 491 F.Supp.2d 563. Licensee appealed. In another action, licensee brought patent infringement action against competitors. The United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Wayne R. Andersen, J., 486 F.Supp.2d 767, construed patent, and denied licensee's motion for preliminary injunction. Licensee appealed. Appeals were consolidated.
 
Holdings: Following sua sponte order of review en banc, the Court of Appeals, Rader, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
patent was limited to "Crystal A" form of compound;
 
process terms in product-by-process claims serve as limitations in determining patent infringement; overruling Scripps Clinic & Research Foundation v. Genentech, Inc., 927 F.2d 1565;
 
phrase "obtainable by" introduced limiting process steps;
 
patent's claims could not be extended under doctrine of equivalents to embrace known but unclaimed subject matter; and
 
district court did not abuse its discretion in denying preliminary injunction.
 
Affirmed.
 
Newman, Circuit Judge, dissented in part and filed opinion in which Mayer and Lourie, Circuit Judges, joined.
 
