


525 F.3d 1334
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
AVENTIS PHARMA S.A. and Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Plaintiffs-Appellants,
v.
AMPHASTAR PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., Defendant-Appellee,
and
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Defendant-Appellee.
No. 2007-1280.
|
May 14, 2008.
|
Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc Denied Sept. 25, 2008.
Synopsis
Background: Pharmaceutical company brought action for infringement of patent that claimed range of defined low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) mixtures, and its replacement. The district court, 390 F.Supp.2d 936, granted summary judgment in favor of competitors based on finding that patents were unenforceable due to inequitable conduct. The Court of Appeals, 176 Fed.Appx. 117,reversed and remanded. On remand, the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Mariana R. Pfaelzer, Senior District Judge, 475 F.Supp.2d 970, granted judgment for competitors after bench trial on inequitable conduct claim. Company appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Prost, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
applicant's failure to disclose dosage information evidenced intent to deceive examiner to extent that such information intended to address anticipation rejection;
 
any error by court in concluding that anticipation was still at issue in third office action did not diminish prior evidence of intent to deceive;
 
evidence of industry practice of clinically-relevant doses could be excluded as irrelevant to reasonableness of applicant's alleged material intentional withholding of particular dosage information through concealment;
 
exculpatory testimony of applicant could be outweighed by other evidence of applicant's deceptive intent;
 
disclosure of half-life data at other doses for compound that was provided to examiner in very misleading way did not diminish applicant's material intentional withholding of dosage information through concealment; and
 
inadvertent errors that applicant made during prosecution of application for patent did not diminish applicant's material intentional withholding of dosage information through concealment.
 
Affirmed.
 
Rader, Circuit Judge, filed dissenting opinion.
 
