


855 F.3d 1328
United States Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit.
NICHIA CORPORATION, Plaintiff-Appellant
v.
EVERLIGHT AMERICAS, INC., Everlight Electronics Co., Ltd., Defendants-Cross-Appellants
Zenaro Lighting, Inc., Defendant
2016-1585
|
2016-1618
|
Decided: April 28, 2017
Synopsis
Background: Patentee brought action against competitor, alleging infringement of patents that disclosed package designs and methods of manufacturing light-emitting diode (LED) devices. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, No. 2:13-cv-00702-JRG, J. Rodney Gilstrap, 2014 WL 7149169, construed the claims, and ruled that patents were infringed after bench trial but denied patentee's request for permanent injunction, 2016 WL 310142. Parties appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Stoll, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
term "lead" meant portion of device that conducted electricity;
 
term "planar" meant in substantially same plane;
 
accused product with outer side surfaces of LED packages that had slight concavities infringed "planar" limitation in patent directed to process for manufacturing LEDs that improved production efficiency that required leads to be in substantially same plane as outer surface of resin;
 
patent directed to process for manufacturing LEDs that improved production efficiency was not obvious;
 
accused product met requirement in patent that its positive and negative lead electrodes were "partially disposed" on bottom surface of recess, and thus infringed;
 
patent on LED design that minimized structural problems caused by components expanding and contracting at different rates during thermal cycling was not obvious;
 
patent directed to design that sought to prevent adhesive from overflowing into other areas of device was not obvious; and
 
patentee would not suffer irreparable harm absent permanent injunction, and thus district court did not abuse its discretion in denying it.
 
Affirmed.
 
*1331 Appeals from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas in No. 2:13-cv-00702-JRG, Judge J. Rodney Gilstrap.
