


504 F.3d 1223
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
Ole K. NILSSEN and Geo Foundation, Ltd., Plaintiffs-Appellants,
v.
OSRAM SYLVANIA, INC. and Osram Sylvania Products, Inc., Defendants-Appellees.
No. 2006-1550.
|
Oct. 10, 2007.
|
Rehearing En Banc Denied Jan. 16, 2008.*
Synopsis
Background: Inventor and exclusive licensee brought action against competitor alleging infringement of patents relating to compact fluorescent light bulbs and to ballasts for gas discharge lamps such as fluorescent light bulbs. The United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, John W. Darrah, J., 440 F.Supp.2d 884, held that patents were unenforceable due to inequitable conduct. Plaintiffs appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Lourie, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
inventor engaged in inequitable conduct by submitting affidavits in support of patentability, including points of distinction over prior art patents, without informing examiner of affiant's relationship to inventor;
 
district court did not abuse its discretion by holding that patents were unenforceable prior to determining whether inequitable conduct related to each of those patents could have rendered additional related patents unenforceable as well;
 
invention had been licensed to large entity and thus inventor was not eligible for small entity maintenance fees on patents covered by agreement;
 
district court did not abuse its discretion in finding clear and convincing evidence of inventor's obvious intent to mislead Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) in improperly claiming small entity status with regard to maintenance fees and that inventor's exculpability statements were not credible;
 
district court's finding, that inventor made intentional misrepresentations in claiming that his patents were derived from earlier ones, was not clearly erroneous;
 
inventor engaged in inequitable conduct by not disclosing prior litigation against other competitor in prosecution of patents; and
 
inference was not unreasonable that inventor intended to deceive PTO during prosecution by withholding prior art references.
 
Affirmed.
 
