


717 F.3d 929
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
REGENTS OF the UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, Plaintiff-Appellant,
v.
AGA MEDICAL CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellee.
No. 2012-1167.
|
June 3, 2013.
Synopsis
Background: Patentee filed action against competitor, alleging infringement of patents directed to medical devices for repairing heart defects. The United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, Patrick J. Schiltz, J., 660 F.Supp.2d 1037, construed disputed terms, partially granted competitor's motion for summary judgment of noninfringement, 2011 WL 13943, and then granted competitor's motion for summary judgment of invalidity. Patentee appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Dyk, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
phrase "first and second occluding disks," meant physically distinct and separate first and second occluding disks;
 
patent had not been infringed by accused product;
 
prior art that contained two umbrella-shaped parts oriented like umbrellas joined at their tips anticipated claims of patent;
 
patentee's disclaimer during prosecution of prior patent applications regarding use of radial frame as equivalent of peripheral frame for medical device for repairing heart defects did not carry forward to means-plus-function language used in subsequent application that contained different claim limitation than its predecessors and captured different subject matter;
 
phrase, "at least a substantial portion of the central portion of the first member" be "in communication with at least a substantial portion of the second member," required that substantial portions of central portions of members communicated "movement";
 
patentee waived any objection to aspect of district court's construction on claim of anticipation that allegedly wrongly allowed translational movement communicated between prior art's members to satisfy "in communication with" claim limitation; and
 
patentee was barred from making argument on appeal that "central portion" of each member in patent directed to medical devices for repairing heart defects had to fill septal defect, and that prior art's hub did not satisfy that requirement.
 
Affirmed.
 
