


851 F.3d 1356
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
TVIIM, LLC, Plaintiff-Appellant
v.
MCAFEE, INC., Defendant-Appellee
2016-1562
|
Decided: March 21, 2017
Synopsis
Background: Patentee sued alleged infringer of patent for security system identifying security vulnerabilities and discrepancies for a computing system. The United States District Court for the Northern District of California, No. 3:13-cv-04545-HSG, Haywood S. Gilliam Jr., J., 2015 WL 3956313, granted in part and denied in part patentee's motion for summary judgment, and denied alleged infringer's motion for summary judgment. Following jury determination that patent was not infringed and was invalid, the District Court, 2016 WL 74637, denied patentee's motions for judgment as a matter of law and new trial. Patentee appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Reyna, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
claim terms including "as a result of/in response to" did not have multiple ordinary meanings;
 
substantial evidence supported jury's non-infringement verdict with respect to claim term "as a result of/in response to";
 
substantial evidence supported jury's invalidity determination based on anticipation, with respect to claim term "as a result of/in response to";
 
substantial evidence supported jury's verdict of non-infringement with respect to claim term "various utility functions";
 
substantial evidence supported jury's invalidity verdict for anticipation with respect to claim term "various utility functions";
 
substantial evidence supported jury's verdict of non-infringement with respect to claim term "reporting the discovered vulnerabilities";
 
substantial evidence supported jury's verdict of invalidity for anticipation with respect to claim term "reporting the discovered vulnerabilities"; and
 
any error by jury regarding non-infringement was harmless.
 
Affirmed.
 
*1359 Appeal from the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in No. 3:13-cv-04545-HSG, Judge Haywood S. Gilliam Jr.
