


647 F.3d 1353
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION and Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc., Plaintiffs-Appellees,
v.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON (also known as Johnson & Johnson, Inc. ), Cordis Corporation, and Wyeth, Defendants-Appellants.
Nos. 2010-1230, 2010-1231, 2010-1233, 2010-1234.
|
June 7, 2011.
|
Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc Denied Sept. 15, 2011.
Synopsis
Background: Competitor brought action against patentee seeking judgment of invalidity of four patents relating to drug-eluting coronary stents used in treatment of coronary artery disease. Patentee counterclaimed for infringement. The United States District Court for the District of Delaware, Sue L. Robinson, J., 679 F.Supp.2d 539, granted summary judgment of invalidity. Patentee appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Moore, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
specification that demonstrated possession of rapamycin in claimed stent did not evidence possession of genus of macrocyclic lactone analogs of rapamycin;
 
lack of any disclosure of examples of macrocyclic lactone analogs of rapamycin, and lack of any guidance on how to properly determine whether compound was macrocyclic lactone analog, could be considered when determining whether claimed invention included possession of genus of macrocyclic lactone analogs;
 
article disclosing how rapamycin interacted with FKBP12 and mTOR was not sufficient to establish correlation between structure and function;
 
indication in prior art patents that "structure and mechanism of action of rapamycin were known" was not sufficient to establish correlation between function and structure of rapamycin and its analogs;
 
specification did not disclose to person of ordinary skill in the art that inventors were in possession of macrocyclic triene analogs of rapamycin by meager disclosure of "analogs"; and
 
claim which required "from about 64 μg to about 197 μg of rapamycin or a macrocyclic triene analog thereof wherein said device provides an in-stent late loss in diameter at 12 months following implantation in a human of less than about 0.5 mm" did not contain sufficient support for highly specific functional requirements claimed.
 
Affirmed.
 
Gajarsa, Circuit Judge, filed opinion concurring-in-part.
 
