


790 F.3d 1329
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
LIGHTING BALLAST CONTROL LLC, Plaintiff-Appellee
v.
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NORTH AMERICA CORPORATION, Defendant.
Universal Lighting Technologies, Inc., Defendant-Appellant.
No. 2012-1014.
|
June 23, 2015.
Synopsis
Background: Assignee brought action claiming infringement of lighting ballast patent. The United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Reed O'Connor, J., 2010 WL 4946343, construed the claims, and granted judgment for assignee after jury verdict in its favor. On appeal, a Court of Appeals panel reversed, 498 Fed.Appx. 986, but assignee's subsequent request for rehearing en banc was granted, 500 Fed.Appx. 951, and the Court of Appeals, 744 F.3d 1272, reinstated the decision. The Supreme Court, --- U.S. ----, 135 S.Ct. 1173, 191 L.Ed.2d 130, vacated and remanded after granting petition for certiorari.
 
Holdings: On remand, the Court of Appeals, Reyna, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
competitor was not required to object to jury instructions to preserve issue for appeal as to whether term "voltage source means" in lighting ballast patent was invalid for indefiniteness;
 
claims conveyed defined structure to one of ordinary skill in the art, and thus term "voltage source means" in lighting ballast patent was not invalid for indefiniteness;
 
district court could rely on extrinsic evidence to determine whether claim in lighting ballast patent conveyed defined structure to one of ordinary skill in the art;
 
competitor had to present the invalidity question to the jury in order to preserve its right to raise it on appeal;
 
term, "direct current blocking means," required capacitor or diode at every output terminal;
 
substantial evidence supported jury's verdict that "direct current blocking means" claim had not been anticipated by prior art;
 
term, "defective," meant whenever direct current path between two terminals was broken; and
 
substantial evidence supported jury's verdict that competitor infringed "control means" claim.
 
Affirmed.
 
