


857 F.3d 858
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
MYLAN INSTITUTIONAL LLC, Apicore US LLC, Plaintiffs-Appellees
v.
AUROBINDO PHARMA LTD., Aurobindo Pharma USA Inc., Auromedics Pharma LLC, Defendants-Appellants
2017-1645
|
Decided: May 19, 2017
Synopsis
Background: Patentee and exclusive licensee brought action against competitor, alleging infringement of patents directed to process for preparing isosulfan blue (ISB) product by reacting isoleuco acid with silver oxide in a polar solvent, followed by reaction with a sodium solution, and patent directed to ISB compound having purity greater than 99.0%, as measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, No. 2:16-cv-00491-RWS-RSP, Robert Schroeder III, J., 2017 WL 497593, entered preliminary injunction against competitor after adopting the report and recommendation of Roy S. Payne, United States Magistrate Judge, 2016 WL 7587325. Competitor appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Lourie, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
substantial question existed concerning infringement of process patents;
 
competitor did not raise substantial question as to whether purity patent was anticipated, and thus invalid, on basis that ISB was known in prior art;
 
competitor did not raise substantial question regarding motivation to combine references or reasonable expectation of success, and consequently whether purity patent was obvious;
 
evidence of secondary considerations weighed in favor of conclusion that district court did not abuse its discretion in granting preliminary injunction;
 
competitor did not raise substantial question as to whether purity patent was indefinite, and thus invalid, on basis of lack of specific HPLC parameters; and
 
patentee would have been irreparably harmed without preliminary injunction.
 
Affirmed.
 
*861 Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas in No. 2:16-cv-00491-RWS-RSP, Judge Robert Schroeder, III.
