


678 F.3d 1280
United States Court of Appeals,
Federal Circuit.
OTSUKA PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD., Plaintiff-Appellee,
v.
SANDOZ, INC., Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Synthon BV, Synthon Holdings BV, Synthon Laboratories, Inc., and Synthon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Defendants,
and
Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp., Defendants-Appellants,
and
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., Barr Laboratories, Inc., and Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Defendants-Appellants.
Nos. 2011-1126, 2011-1127.
|
May 7, 2012.
|
Rehearing En Banc Denied Aug. 7, 2012.
Synopsis
Background: Patentee filed action against generic drug manufacturers alleging infringement of patent on active ingredient in drug approved by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, irritability associated with autistic disorder in pediatric patients, and as add-on treatment for depression. Manufacturers counterclaimed alleging that claims were invalid for obviousness and obviousness-type double patenting. The United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, Mary L. Cooper, J., 2010 WL 4596324, sustained validity of asserted claims of patent after bench trial. Defendants appealed.
 
Holdings: The Court of Appeals, Lourie, Circuit Judge, held that:
 
carbostyrils could not be considered prior art;
 
patent was not obvious based on prior art patent that disclosed unsubstituted butoxy compound and "laundry list" of potential central nervous system controlling effects from carbostyril;
 
patent was not obvious based on prior art declaration that disclosed three sets of test data comparing carbostyril derivatives on mice;
 
manufacturers did not prove by clear and convincing evidence that patent was obvious based on prior art foreign patent application;
 
patent was not obvious based on patentee's own prior art development compound; and
 
person of ordinary skill would not have been motivated to pursue 2,3-dichloro substitution on phenyl ring as would have been required to convert unsubstituted butoxy to aripiprazole.
 
Affirmed.
 
